hey this is presh tall Walker thanks to
Moose Toba ally in Bangladesh for
sending me this problem two brothers a
and B have the exact same walking speed
and the exact same running speed
one day they started the same trip to
the same place brother a walked for half
of the distance and ran the rest while
brother B walked for half of the time
and ran for the other half of time which
brother reached the end of the trip
first can you figure it out give this
problem a try and when you're ready keep
watching the video for a solution so
there are many ways to solve this
problem and I'm going to present three
different methods first I'll explain the
answer using logical reasoning then I'll
go over a method of using concrete
numbers and finally I'll give a formal
algebraic proof so let's get started
with logical reasoning brother a runs
for half of the distance so brother a
must be running for less than half of
the time this is because brother a also
walks half the distance and walking the
same distance takes more time than
running since brother B runs half the
time brother B is running for more time
and walking for less time so brother B
will be faster and complete the journey
first amazing we solve this without
doing any actual numerical calculation
but if that wasn't convincing you you
could use concrete numbers and use your
poetic license to fill in distances and
speeds that were not specified in the
problem so let's suppose brother a walks
and then runs 500 more just to be the
man to go 1,000 miles to fall down at
your door imagine both brothers walk at
a rate of 5 miles per hour and run at a
rate of 10 miles per hour how long will
brother a take we take half the distance
of 500 and divide it by the walking
speed of five then we take the other
half of 500 and divide it by the running
speed of ten to get a total of a hundred
and fifty hours now brother B runs two
times as fast so he must run two times
the distance to have an equal running
time and walking time so we can then
calculate he must run for 1000 times 2/3
smiles and he must walk for 1,000 times
1/3 miles we can then calculate brother
B's total time for the trip this will be
the walking distance of 1,000 over 3
divided by the walking speed of 5 plus
the running distance of 1000 times 2/3
divided by the running speed of 10 this
results in a total time of 133 and 1/3
hours so this is less time than brother
a so brother B completes the trip first
now let's just go over a formal proof
suppose the total distance is d units
the walking speed is w units per hour
and the running speed is our units per
hour and suppose R is greater than W the
total time that brother a takes will be
half the distance divided by the walking
speed plus half the distance divided by
the running speed we make a common
denominator and this simplifies to be
the distance D times the quantity R plus
W all over the quantity 2 our W now to
calculate the average speed of brother a
we take the total distance and divide it
by the total time this simplifies to be
the quantity to our W divided by the
quantity R plus W
this is the harmonic mean of the two
numbers R and W now brother B's
calculation for average speed is much
easier his speed is a simple arithmetic
average because he's running per half
the time and walking per half the time
so his average speed is the quantity R
plus W all over 2 so which brother is
faster brother a has an average speed
equal to the harmonic mean of R and W
while brother B has an average speed
equal to the arithmetic mean of R and W
for two distinct positive numbers the
arithmetic mean is always larger this is
a well-known property and I'd link to a
proof of that in the video description
therefore brother B has a larger or
faster average speed so he will finish
the trip first thanks for watching this
video i post math videos that you can
watch from free and I've so far stayed
free with no sponsors for very important
reasons if you'd like to support the
channel here's how you can help please
subscribe for free to get the newest
videos also watch and share all of mind
your decisions videos so that more
people can discover this channel you can
email me a math topic or puzzle
suggestion at presh and mind your
decisions comm if you like this video
you can also check out my books which
are linked in the video description and
if you so choose you can financially
support this channel on patreon thanks
for watching and thank you for
supporting this channel